- Do PPIs really contain polyethylene glycol? if so why?
- I think one of the important aspects of PPIs associated with dementia is 
that most of these drugs have an anticholinergic mechanism of action?
There may be another mechanism… Anti secretory drugs i.e., 
those that lower acid production in the stomach (proton pump inhibitors and histamine
 blockers) may encourage the growth of bacteria there… these bacteria encourage the 
production of nitrates and nitrites from food and certain drugs. 
Nitrites can form nitrosamines and nitrosamides, which are carcinogens. 
It has been known that other older anti-secretory effects to control ulcers e.g.,
 nerve cutting, also are associated with increased gastric cancer perhaps due to 
the same mechanism.

We all know that EVERY red blood cell HAS to have calcium in 
it—it will drag the calcium out of your bones 
if it has to…osteoporosis?????

Using Vitamins C and E frequently could help, as these help to neutralize nitrites 
and nitrates…
There are pages on the People’s Pharmacy site about the problem of getting off of PPIs. It took 2 months for my stomach to settle down.
The PPI has been suppressing the acid pump in your stomach so the pump has grown very strong in response. When you first stop the PPI, your strong pump will put too much acid into your stomach. This will tempt you to take the PPI. You have to give your pump time to adjust. Use the other methods sparingly and tough it out. Having acid problems at night? Sleep on a slant, and stop eating and drinking (except water) 3 hours before bedtime.
To inspire yourself, do some research. Your pneumonia is not the only bad side effect of long-term PPI use.

Check out Karen R Hurd’s book “And They Said It Wasn’t Possible.” 
Karen is a nutritionist who claims that beans, 
as in legumes, are very healing to the digestive system.
 This soluble fiber food attaches itself to the bile 
and removes toxins from the body. If we don’t eat this, 
the bile recirculates and the bile becomes more and more likely 
to cause digestive issues… serious ones. (She has a facebook page too.) 
So I’m planning to eat beans (and vegetables-to help reduce acidity) as 
part of the regimen to wean off of omeprazole. 
I think there are alot of other good suggestions here too. thanks.


Studies from Australia have noted isolated incidents of interstitial nephritis related to PPIs. 
This is the type of infrequent reaction that can be associated with any drug and is not 
related to the duration of use. Liver disease is another rare associated condition. 
Anaphylaxis and allergy have likewise been described on rare occasions.

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3093718/

Cassie….I stopped Protonix cold turkey after I read this about kidney disease.

https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2016/01/160111135035.htm

http://www.renalandurologynews.com/chronic-kidney-disease-ckd/proton-pump-inhibitors-chronic-kidney-disease-risk/article/449830/

https://www.kidney.org/atoz/content/acid-reflux-and-proton-pump-inhibitors



Flash forward to last spring and my GI told me that digestion, especially acid production is completely tied in to hormones and that a huge percentage of his clientele are women that are perimenopausal and menopausal.